"PENN STATE VOLLEYBALL COACH KATIE SCHUMACHER-CAWLEY HAS STAGE 2 BREAST CANCER:WHAT SHE'S SHARED“I’m approaching this with strength, determination, and an unwavering sense ofhope.”Published: Dec 22, 2024 6:00 AM ESTThis Sunday, Louisville takes on Penn State in the NCAA women's volleyballfinals. But over the past few months, the Nittany Lions have faced a much biggerbattle: Their coach, Katie Schumacher-Cawley, has been diagnosed with cancer.After sharing her diagnosis in October, Katie has continued to coach throughouther treatment. Here’s what she’s shared.WHAT CANCER DOES PENN STATE COACH KATIE SCHUMACHER-CAWLEY HAVE?Katie has stage 2 . She can often be seen on the sidelines of games with a scarfcovering her head.“My mindset has always been wanting to win and having the best team I can,” shepreviously told . “I feel normal… I just want to keep going. I feel so loved,and I’m so lucky to have the staff I have.” * * * Katie's team has rallied behind her, noting that she's only missed a fewpracticies throughout treatment.“Even if she's not feeling well, you would literally never be able to tell,”outside hitter Jess Mruzik told the . “She's always herself and she's alwaysjust fun.”SHE WAS DIAGNOSED IN SEPTEMBER 2024.Katie was diagnosed earlier this year, telling ESPN that she “went through aseries of biopsies and tests and met with different doctors.”Katie first publicly shared her cancer in an October post. “This news has been alot to process, and as you can imagine, it has brought a range of emotions,” shewrote. “But I’m approaching this with strength, determination, and an unwaveringsense of hope. We will draw inspiration from the many people in our lives thathave battled cancer and have emerged victorious.”THE VOLLEYBALL COMMUNITY HAS RALLIED BEHIND HER.Katie has repeatedly thanked the public for all of the support she’sreceived—which has included from rival teams.In November, members of Purdue's volleyball team gave Katie pink roses to showtheir support. Katie hugged each of them and thanked them in a touching video.SHE’S LED THE NITTANY LIONS TO A CHAMPIONSHIP APPEARANCE.When she announced her diagnosis, Katie vowed that she would continue to focuson the team’s success, as well as her health and recovery. Now, she’s led PennState to the NCAA championships. (If the Nittany Lions win, it will be theteam’s eighth time doing so.) * * * “I'm excited for this team,” Katie told .The championship game kicks off at 3 p.m. ET and will air on ABC, ESPN+, andDisney+.Korin Miller is a freelance writer specializing in general wellness, sexualhealth and relationships, and lifestyle trends, with work appearing in Men’sHealth, Women’s Health, Self, Glamour, and more. She has a master’s degree fromAmerican University, lives by the beach, and hopes to own a teacup pig and tacotruck one day.Advertisement - Continue Reading BelowAdvertisement - Continue Reading BelowAdvertisement - Continue Reading Below"